Add compiler performance survey (#337)
rust-lang/surveys: surveys/micro/2025-06-compiler-performance.md

Reviewer: Some other areas that may negatively impact people that we should consider how to include
- Spurious full rebuilds
- r-a / cargo interactions (for workarounds, one used for this is using separate target directories)

Author: I would add `- cargo rebuilding everything from scratch and I do not understand why` to the `Which of the following problems do you most struggle with?` question.

# Survey questions

The goal of this survey is to figure out how much do Rust users struggle with compilation times and which compilation workflows are the most relevant for them. We would like to use this data so that we can focus the efforts of Rust compiler contributors on the areas of compilation performance that matter the most to our users.

Your feedback is much appreciated. This survey is fully anonymous. The Rust survey team will go through the answers and release a summary on the Rust blog after the survey is complete.

## User classification

### Do you use Rust?

Type: select one

- Yes, I use Rust [`NEXT`](#do-you-code-in-rust-at-a-company)
- No, I don't currently use Rust, but I have in the past [`NEXT`](#were-long-compilation-times-the-primary-reason-why-you-stopped-using-rust)

> - No, I have never used Rust [`END`](#other)

Reviewer 2: Is this option necessary? I'm honestly not interested in hearing feedback from people who have never used Rust.

Reviewer 3: Having some sanity questions to filter on can be useful.
https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Lizardman%27s_Constant

Author: Right, me neither, but we need to filter these people out. This is just a control question to make sure that people who actually use Rust are answering the survey. If you answer "no", the survey will immediately end for you.

### Were long compilation times the primary reason why you stopped using Rust?

Type: select one

- Yes
- No, but it was one of the reasons why I stopped using Rust
- No

### Which operating systems do you use regularly for Rust development?

**Note**: this is specifically about which systems you personally use for development, *not* all the
systems you target.

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Linux
- Windows
- Windows Subsystem for Linux
- macOS
- Other (open response)

### Do you code in Rust at a company?

If yes, what is the approximate size of the company?

Type: select one (optional)

- No, I do not code in Rust in a company
- Yes (1-50 employees)
- Yes (51-500 employees)
- Yes (501-5000 employees)
- Yes (more than 5000 employees)

## Workflows

### How do you build your Rust projects?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- I use Cargo
- I use some other build system
- I combine Cargo and another build system

> - If you use Cargo with (or just use) other build systems, which ones do you use? (open response)

Reviewer 2: Reword: "If you use other build system(s), which ones..."

### Which compilation workflows are the most important to you?

Please rate how important are the following compilation workflows to you, and how much do you currently struggle with their performance currently.

Type: matrix (optional)

Workflows:

- Unoptimized rebuild (change code, rebuild without optimizations)
- Optimized rebuild (change code, rebuild with optimizations)
- Workspace rebuild (change a crate which causes multiple other crates in your workspace to be rebuilt)
- Clean unoptimized build (build a crate graph from scratch)
- Clean optimized build (build a crate graph from scratch)

> - Build in a CI workflow

Author: Sure! I will add a follow-up question for that.

Priority:

- Not important for me
- Important for me, compile times are okay for me

> - Important for me, compile times are a blocker for me

Reviewer 4: maybe add an option for compile times being not quite a blocker but much slower than desired? e.g. if some crate takes >30s to compile (not including dependencies) but that's not enough to make you give up.

Reviewer 4: no, it means that I need to be able to compile my code to make a living, so I wait however long that takes, not that I think however long it takes is fine.

Author: Changed the bullet points to avoid the blocker terminology.

> - Not important for me
> - Important for me, compile times are okay for me
> - Important for me, compile times are a blocker for me

Reviewer 5: To answer Jake's suggestions maybe we could reframe the choices as:
```suggestion
- Not so important
- Important, compile times are okay/acceptable for me
- Important, compile times are a blocker for me
```

I guess what we are looking for is the threshold above which people open Reddit (like @epage said at the RustWeek :slightly_smiling_face: )

(removed a few redundant "for me"s)

Author: Thanks! Also I like the word "acceptable", replaced "okay" with it.

### How do you primarily examine compilation errors in your code?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Using code editor (e.g. inline annotations)
- Using terminal commands (e.g. `cargo check`)
- Other (open response)

### If you use Cargo, how often do you use the following commands after making a change to Rust code?

Type: matrix (optional)

Commands:

- `cargo check`

> - `cargo build`

Reviewer 6: Maybe this should be cargo build / cargo run?
I almost never use cargo build, but cargo run pretty regularly and i don't think it is obvious that answers for cargo run should count towards cargo build.

Author: Good point! Added that.

> - `cargo build` or `cargo run`

Reviewer: Should we check if people are primarily using `cargo check` or `cargo clippy`?

This can be relevant for
- making clippy a fully rustc driver that can be used for `cargo build` / `cargo test`
- What we might want to do to allow `cargo build` to reuse `cargo check` results

Reviewer 5: (If a clippy option is meant to suggest the `clippy:perf` lints group, maybe specify that, e.g. `cargo clippy -- -Aclippy::perf`)

Author: Good point, will add clippy.

> ### If you use Cargo, how often do you use the following commands after making a change to Rust code?
> 
> Type: matrix (optional)
> 
> Commands:
> 
> - `cargo check`
> - `cargo build` or `cargo run`
> - `cargo test`
> 
> Frequency:
> 
> - Rarely
> - Sometimes
> - Often

Reviewer: I feel like this might be easy to get weird results on:
- What does the frequency mean
- What does "making a change" mean

```suggestion
### If you use Cargo, how often do you use the following commands after each change to Rust code?

Type: matrix (optional)

Commands:

- `cargo check`
- `cargo test`
- `cargo run` / `cargo build`

Frequency:

- On every change
- Once I've resolved other issues
- When I'm done
```
- Put `cargo run` before `cargo build` to emphasize manual testing
- Put `cargo run` last as generally there will be a progress that ties into "Once I've resolved other issues"
- Made the frequency more tied into their workflow

Author: What about this?
```
### If you use Cargo, how often do you use the following commands after each change to Rust code?

Type: matrix (optional)

Commands:

- `cargo check`
- `cargo clippy`
- `cargo test`
- `cargo run` / `cargo build`

Frequency:

- After every code change
- Only after I have resolved other issues
- Only after I am done (e.g. before creating a commit or pushing to a remote branch)
- Never
```

### How long do you need to wait for the compiler to rebuild your code after making a change?

> Please select the longest duration range amongst the projects that you regularly work on.

Reviewer 3: Does "change" here imply this is just about local development or CI too? I'd give quite different answers for these.

Author: I was thinking local changes only. I will clarify, thanks.

Type: select one (optional)

- Less than a second
- Between 1 and 5 seconds
- Between 5 and 10 seconds
- Between 10 and 30 seconds
- Between 30 seconds and 1 minute
- Between 1 and 5 minutes
- More than 5 minutes

### Which of the following problems do you most struggle with?

Type: matrix (optional)

Commands:

- Waiting for a rebuild after making a small change.
- Waiting for CI workflows that build Rust code.
- `cargo check` and `cargo build` not sharing compilation cache.
- `cargo check` and `cargo clippy` not sharing compilation cache.
- Waiting for an IDE to show me inline error/warning annotations.

Priority:

- Not a problem for me
- Could be improved
- Big blocker for me

## Workarounds

### Do you use any of the following compiler options to improve compilation performance?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Disable (or reduce) debuginfo (e.g. set `debug = 0` in `Cargo.toml`)
- Parallel compiler frontend (pass `-Zthreads=<N>` to the compiler)
- Cranelift codegen backend (e.g. set `codegen-backend = "cranelift"` in `Cargo.toml`)
- Alternative linker (e.g. `lld`/`mold`/`wild`)
- Caching compiler wrapper (e.g. `sccache`)

> - Something else (open response)

Reviewer 7: Also `CARGO_TARGET_DIR` hack comes to mind, usually to: 
 - share artifacts between projects
 - avoid invalidating cache when changing compiler options a lot

not sure if it's common enough to include

Reviewer 4: i've used that to avoid sharing between cargo test and rust-analyzer.

Author: Good point, will add.

### If you use an alternative linker, which one do you use?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- gold
- lld
- mold
- wild
- Other (open response)

> ### Do you use any of the following compiler options to improve compilation performance?

Author: Oops, copy-paste error. Thanks!

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Disable (or reduce) debuginfo (e.g. setting `debug = 0` in `Cargo.toml`)
- Parallel compiler frontend (passing `-Zthreads=<N>` to the compiler)
- Cranelift codegen backend (e.g. setting `codegen-backend = "cranelift"` in `Cargo.toml`)
- Alternative linker (e.g. LLD/mold/wild)

### Do you use a global `config.toml` override?

You can create a `config.toml` file in your `CARGO_HOME` directory (e.g. `~/.cargo/config.toml`) which can be used to apply certain compilation settings (e.g. using a faster linker) across all Cargo projects on your computer.

Type: select one (optional)

- Yes
- No

### Do you use any of the following methods to improve compilation performance?

Please select only methods that you have used primarily in order to improve compilation performance, not for other reasons.

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Splitting crates into smaller crates
- Reducing the amount of dependencies
- Disabling default Cargo features of dependencies
- Creating a Cargo feature that makes certain dependencies (or their features) optional

> - Something else (open response)

Reviewer 7: also, does "avoiding proc macros" count as a method 😄

> - Something else (open response)

Reviewer 3: container and CI things:

- cargo chef
- buildkit cache mounts
- `-Zchecksum-freshness`
- basic save/restore of target dir and .cargo

> - Something else (open response)

Reviewer: https://github.com/Swatinem/rust-cache or other CI caching functionality

> - Something else (open response)

Reviewer 5: > outlining non-generic core from a generic function

As a non super-experienced Rust dev I would struggle to understand this option. Can it be reworded?

> ### Do you use a nightly compiler to achieve better compilation performance?

Reviewer 2: Is nightly faster? (This question surprised me, I'm not sure what to make of it.)

Author: > Is nightly faster? (This question surprised me, I'm not sure what to make of it.)

So, one thing is that many people *believe* that it is faster, so it's good to see how large this perception is. The second thing is that while historically this was mostly untrue, recently `nightly` was indeed faster by default, for example for the past year it used the LLD linker by default. So just changing stable to nightly provided speedups.

But the larger effect is that nightly enables you to use more flags and compiler options to actually make compilation faster, even if it is not the default.

Please answer `Yes` if you use the `nightly` toolchain primarily for achieving better compilation performance, not for other reasons.

Type: select one (optional)

- Yes
- No

## Debugging

> ### How often do you use a debugger to debug your Rust code?

Reviewer 3: Since this implicitly seems to be about debuginfo, don't forget about profilers. Perhaps that should be a separate question though since one needs that on release builds, not dev builds.

Author: Good point, added a mirrored question about profilers.

- No, I do not code in Rust in a company
- Yes (1-50 employees)
- Yes (51-500 employees)
- Yes (501-5000 employees)
- Yes (more than 5000 employees)

## Workflows

### How do you build your Rust projects?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- I use Cargo
- I use some other build system
- I combine Cargo and another build system
- If you use other build system(s), which ones do you use? (open response)

### Which compilation workflows are the most important to you?

Please rate how important are the following compilation workflows to you, and how much do you currently struggle with their performance currently.

Type: matrix (optional)

Workflows:

- Unoptimized rebuild (change code, rebuild without optimizations)
- Optimized rebuild (change code, rebuild with optimizations)
- Workspace rebuild (change a crate which causes multiple other crates in your workspace to be rebuilt)
- Clean unoptimized build (build a crate graph from scratch)
- Clean optimized build (build a crate graph from scratch)
- Build in a CI workflow

Priority:

- Not so important for me
- Important, compile times are acceptable for me
- Important, compile times are a blocker for me

> ### Do you have any other compilation workflow that you would like to mention?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Do you have any other Rust development workflow that you would like to mention?
```
If we say "compilation" it might get people thinking too narrowly (e.g. docker, running of tests)

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Using code editor (e.g. inline annotations)
- Using terminal commands (e.g. `cargo check`)
- Other (open response)

### If you use Cargo, how often do you use the following commands after each change to Rust code?

Type: matrix (optional)

Commands:

- `cargo check`
- `cargo clippy`
- `cargo test`
- `cargo run` / `cargo build`

Frequency:

- After every code change
- Only after I have resolved other issues
- Only after I am done (e.g. before creating a commit or pushing to a remote branch)
- Never

### How long do you need to wait for the compiler to rebuild your code after making a change?

Please select the longest duration range amongst the projects that you regularly work on.

This question focuses on local development workflows, not CI or remote builds. If you do not compile your Rust code locally, please skip this question.

Type: select one (optional)

- Less than a second
- Between 1 and 5 seconds
- Between 5 and 10 seconds
- Between 10 and 30 seconds
- Between 30 seconds and 1 minute
- Between 1 and 5 minutes
- More than 5 minutes

### Which of the following problems do you most struggle with?

Type: matrix (optional)

Commands:

> - Waiting for a rebuild after making a small change
> - Waiting for CI workflows that build Rust code
> - `cargo check` and `cargo build` not sharing compilation cache
> - `cargo check` and `cargo clippy` not sharing compilation cache
> - Waiting for an IDE to show me inline error/warning annotations
> - `cargo` rebuilding everything from scratch and I do not understand why

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Waiting for a rebuild after making a small change
- Waiting for CI workflows that build Rust code
- `cargo check` and `cargo build` not sharing compilation cache
- `cargo check` and `cargo clippy` not sharing compilation cache
- Waiting for an IDE to show me inline error/warning annotations
- `cargo` rebuilding everything from scratch and I do not understand why
- `cargo` and my IDE blocking each other
```

Priority:

- Not a problem for me
- Could be improved
- Big blocker for me

## Workarounds

### Have you used any of the following mechanisms to improve compilation performance?

Please select only mechanisms/workarounds that you have used at least once **primarily** in order to improve compilation performance, not for other reasons.

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Disable (or reduce) debuginfo (e.g. set `debug = 0` in `Cargo.toml`)
- Parallel compiler frontend (pass `-Zthreads=<N>` to the compiler)

> - Cranelift codegen backend (e.g. set `codegen-backend = "cranelift"` in `Cargo.toml`)

Author: I know, but I don't want these getting too wide on the survey page, as there will already be a lot of them. The `e.g.` is enough to show that there are multiple ways to do it, I think.

- Alternative linker (e.g. `lld`/`mold`/`wild`)
- Caching compiler wrapper (e.g. `sccache`)
- Share `target` directory amongst multiple projects (with `CARGO_TARGET_DIR`)
- Split crates into smaller crates
- Reduce the amount of dependencies
- Disable default Cargo features of dependencies
- Create a Cargo feature that makes certain dependencies (or their features) optional
- Reduce usage of procedural macros
- Reduce usage of generic code (e.g. by converting it to use `dyn Trait` instead)
- Merge integration tests into a single binary
- Something else (open response)

### If you use an alternative linker, which one do you use?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- gold
- lld
- mold
- wild
- Other (open response)

### Do you use a global `config.toml` override?

> You can create a `config.toml` file in your `CARGO_HOME` directory (e.g. `~/.cargo/config.toml`) which can be used to apply certain compilation settings (e.g. using a faster linker) across all Cargo projects on your computer.

Author: Wanted to see if people configure compilation options related to compiler performance globally, with `config.toml`. If they do this, they essentially change the defaults on all their local projects, and would thus likely want to see that option become the default.

If you don't think it's worth asking, I'll remove it.

> You can create a `config.toml` file in your `CARGO_HOME` directory (e.g. `~/.cargo/config.toml`) which can be used to apply certain compilation settings (e.g. using a faster linker) across all Cargo projects on your computer.

Reviewer: Unsure if this will help towards identifying defaults to change.  If someone works on a lot of projects, it'll be in their config.  If they work on only a couple big projects, then its more likely to be in those projects' config (e.g. a Zed or Roc developer).  We also aren't asking which they are doing this with to know which are more universal.

Type: select one (optional)

- Yes

> - No

Reviewer: Should we ask why not?  I know for me, I regularly run into problems with MSRV and my global config.

- Could be improved, but does not limit me
- Not an issue for me at all

### How do you primarily examine compilation errors in your code?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Using code editor (e.g. inline annotations)
- Using terminal commands (e.g. *cargo check*)
- Other (open response)

### If you use Cargo, how often do you use the following commands after each change to Rust code?

Type: matrix (optional)

Commands:

- *cargo check*
- *cargo clippy*
- *cargo test*
- *cargo run* / *cargo build*

Frequency:

- After every code change
- Only after I have resolved other issues
- Only after I am done (e.g. before committing code)
- Never

## Workarounds

### Have you used any of the following mechanisms to improve compilation performance?

Please select only mechanisms/workarounds that you have used at least once **primarily** in order to improve compilation performance, not for other reasons.

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- Disable (or reduce) debuginfo (e.g. set `debug = 0` in `Cargo.toml`)
- Parallel compiler frontend (pass `-Zthreads=<N>` to the compiler)
- Cranelift codegen backend (e.g. set `codegen-backend = "cranelift"` in `Cargo.toml`)

> - Alternative linker (e.g. `lld`/`mold`/`wild`)

Reviewer 5: All these backticks don't render for me (Firefox/Linux). Is it the same for everyone else?
![grafik](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8266c8bf-0b4c-4ce8-b6ee-100cacb799f4)

maybe they can be removed or replaced with something else? I think we had the same issue last year for the annual community survey

Reviewer 5: to be honest I think this formatting could be reduced to improve readability. For example, I think no formatting it's perfectly fine in case like these
```
- Using code editor (e.g. inline annotations)
- Using terminal commands (e.g. cargo check)
- Alternative linker (e.g. lld/mold/wild)
```
nobody will be confused because those words are well separated and surely nobody will think to fungi when reading 'mold'.

For the same reason I also think [here](https://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/pull/337/files#diff-6c0247c038b7ab0426ed59910d44509716813c189cb24a010b7dfd1b3671cabdR151-R154) no formatting is needed.

<details><summary>See how it looks</summary>
<p>

![grafik](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cf1d1e32-41ba-413f-b1e2-09752f44c303)

</p>
</details> 

In other cases some formatting is needed to disambiguate and you'll probably need to use italic/bold (like [here](https://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/pull/337/files#diff-6c0247c038b7ab0426ed59910d44509716813c189cb24a010b7dfd1b3671cabdR126-R129)). Backticks are IMO suboptimal formatting in all cases.

It's a mixed bag :man_shrugging:

Author: Agreed! Removed all usage of backticks, and reduced formatting in a few places.

- Caching compiler wrapper (e.g. sccache)
- Share *target* directory amongst multiple projects (e.g. with CARGO_TARGET_DIR)
- Split crates into smaller crates
- Reduce the amount of dependencies
- Disable default Cargo features of dependencies
- Create a Cargo feature to opt into building certain dependencies (or their features)
- Reduce usage of procedural macros
- Reduce usage of generic code (e.g. by converting it to *dyn Trait* instead)
- Merge integration tests into a single binary

> - Something else (open response)

Reviewer 8: It'd be nice to sort this section by a rough likelihood of an action. I bet most people are familiar with splitting crates up, reducing the amount of dependencies or tweaking the feature set - less so with merging integration tests, sharing target directories or tweaking code structure to make it compile faster.

Author: Interesting, I guess you're thinking of avoiding fatigue, as people might be annoyed to read all of them and you think we should offer the most popular options first? From a statistical/bias standpoint, I would actually like to configure these answers to be randomized, to avoid bias by presenting selected choices first :sweat_smile: (we can configure the randomization in SurveyHero, we did it for a bunch of options in the annual survey).

Reviewer 8: >  I guess you're thinking of avoiding fatigue

Yes, exactly. I'm not willing to die on that hill though and I see why you'd want them randomized - I just worry that there are quite a few options and some of the respondents won't know what all of these options even mean.

Author: I will actually turns this into a "matrix" answer, to also let us know if these approaches helped users or not. And I will clarify that all answers (and most questions) are optional.

> - Something else (open response)

Reviewer 8: For Zed we've tried some of these options and found them to have no impact/negative impact (e.g. with parallel frontend). 
Would it be anyhow helpful for you to have a separate question like "Of these options, which ones did you try and find to have no impact?"?

## Workflows

### Which builds system do you use to build Rust code?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- I use Cargo
- I use some other build system
- I combine Cargo and another build system
- If you use other build system(s), which ones do you use? (open response)

### How do you build your Rust projects?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- On my local computer
- On CI infrastructure
- On a remote or cloud server
- Other (open response)

### Which compilation workflows are the most important to you?

Please rate how important are the following compilation workflows to you, and how much do you currently struggle with their performance currently.

Type: matrix (optional)

Workflows:

- Unoptimized rebuild (change code, rebuild without optimizations)
- Optimized rebuild (change code, rebuild with optimizations)
- Workspace rebuild (change a crate which causes multiple other crates in your workspace to be rebuilt)
- Clean unoptimized build (build a crate graph from scratch)
- Clean optimized build (build a crate graph from scratch)
- Build in a CI workflow

Priority:

- Not so important for me
- Important, compile times are acceptable for me

> - Important, compile times are a blocker for me

Reviewer 9: "compile times are a blocker" is too extreme. I suspect anyone actually blocked by compile times won't be answering this question and most people will say they aren't "acceptable" but not so bad as to block.

If yes, what is the approximate size of the company?

Type: select one (optional)

- No, I don't code in Rust in a company
- Yes (1-50 employees)
- Yes (51-500 employees)
- Yes (501-5000 employees)
- Yes (more than 5000 employees)

## Development workflows

Here we would like to understand what kinds of workflows you use when compiling Rust code. If you work on multiple projects with diverse workflows, please primarily focus on use-case(s) where you most struggle with compilation performance.

### Which build systems do you use to build Rust code?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- I use Cargo
- I use some other build system
- I combine Cargo and another build system
- If you use other build system(s), which ones do you use? (open response)

### How do you build your Rust projects?

Type: select all that apply (optional)

- On my local computer
- On CI (Continuous Integration) infrastructure
- On a remote or cloud server
- Other (open response)

### Which development workflows limit your productivity?

Please rate how much do you struggle with compiler performance in the following development workflows.

Type: matrix (optional)

Workflows:

> - Unoptimized rebuilds (change code, rebuild without optimizations)

Author: Yeah, I agree that `cargo test` could be smarter, even for "simple" stuff like https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/issues/13589. I'll add it here.

Please provide an answer for the Rust project where you most struggle with compilation times. Include the number of external/third-party dependencies/crates (including transitive ones) compiled when you run e.g. *cargo build*.

Type: select one (optional)

- No dependencies
- 1-10 dependencies
- 11-50 dependencies
- 51-100 dependencies
- 101-200 dependencies
- 201-300 dependencies
- 301-500 dependencies
- More than 500 dependencies

### How long do you need to wait for the compiler to rebuild your code after making a change?

Please select the longest duration range amongst the projects that you regularly work on.

This question focuses on local development workflows, not CI or remote builds. If you do not compile your Rust code locally, please skip this question.

Type: select one (optional)

- Less than a second
- Between 1 and 5 seconds
- Between 5 and 10 seconds
- Between 10 and 30 seconds
- Between 30 seconds and 1 minute
- Between 1 and 5 minutes
- More than 5 minutes

### Which of the following problems do you most struggle with?

Type: matrix (optional)

Commands:

- Waiting for a rebuild after making a small change

> - Waiting for CI workflows that build Rust code

Reviewer 10: I would like to suggest the following questions about CI:
- How long does the compiler take to build your project in CI?
- Does your CI cache previous build artifacts? If yes, what do you use for caching?
